Add dedicated metrics view docs (#3557)
elastic/docs-content: solutions/observability/infra-and-hosts/discover-metrics.md

  stack: preview 9.2
  serverless: preview
description: Make the most of Discover to explore metrics data.
products:
  - id: observability
  - id: security
---

# Explore metrics data with Discover in Kibana

**Discover** offers a dedicated experience for exploring metrics data. When **Discover** recognizes metrics data, it enables specific features or default behaviors to optimize your data exploration. Metrics-specific exploration in Discover automatically generates an grid of charts showing available metrics from your data. Use it to quickly search and filter metrics, break metrics down by dimension, access them using ES|QL, and add metrics to dashboards with a single click.

If you're just getting started with **Discover** and want to learn its main principles, you should get familiar with the [default experience](../../../explore-analyze/discover.md).

:::{image} /solutions/images/explore-metrics-ui.png
:alt: Screenshot of adding a dimension.
:screenshot:
:::

## Requirements

### Data recognition
All data stored in `metrics-*` indices is by default recognized as metrics data, and triggers the **Discover** experience detailed on this page.

### Required Kibana privileges

> % need to check if there are required privileges for metrics.

Author: My only frame of reference for this is when I created the logs specific view docs, users needed have certain kibana privileges assigned, which I believe are assigned through user roles at a space level, to view all of the data. Maybe that's not the case with metrics.

<img width="1100" height="1353" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d5fba846-448b-4529-8c2f-bc499b9046cf" />

Viewing metrics data in **Discover** requires at least `read` privileges for:
- **Discover**
- **Index**
- **Infrastructure**

For more on assigning Kibana privileges, refer to the
[Kibana privileges documentation](../../../deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/kibana-privileges.md).

## Load metrics data

:::{note}
To visualize your data as metric charts, your metrics data stream needs to have its **Index mode** set to **Time series**. Find **Index Management** using the [global search field](/explore-analyze/find-and-organize/find-apps-and-objects.md), then select the **Data Streams** tab to find your data stream's index mode.
:::

The dedicated metrics view is only available in ES|QL mode. Select **Try ES|QL** from the **Discover** main page.

> % not sure if the above is true, but wasn't able to access in classic view.

Reviewer: TS is only for metrics, you can see more context here https://github.com/elastic/metrics-program/discussions/224

The summary is that FROM is for documents (Logs, etc) and TS is for metrics (Time series).

Some functionality that is specific for metrics only works when the data is time series hence the TS command.

Furthermore, when typing:
- TS space, only time series indixes appear
- FROM space, all indexes appear (at least for now) and there is a "UX enhancement" that if a user picks a time series indexes it automatically changes it to TS

> % not sure if the above is true, but wasn't able to access in classic view.

Author: Makes sense, thanks for the explanation!

---
applies_to:
  stack: preview 9.2
  serverless: preview
description: Make the most of Discover to explore metrics data.
products:
  - id: observability
  - id: security
---

# Explore metrics data with Discover in Kibana

**Discover** offers a dedicated experience for exploring metrics data. When **Discover** recognizes metrics data, it enables specific features and default behaviors to optimize your data exploration. Metrics-specific exploration in Discover automatically generates a grid of charts showing available metrics from your data. Use this view to quickly search and filter metrics, break metrics down by dimension, access them using ES|QL, and add metrics to dashboards with a single click.

If you're just getting started with **Discover** and want to learn its main principles, you should get familiar with the [default experience](../../../explore-analyze/discover.md).

:::{image} /solutions/images/explore-metrics-ui.png
:alt: Screenshot of adding a dimension.
:screenshot:
:::

## Requirements

### Data recognition

> By default, all data stored in `metrics-*` indices is recognized as metrics data and triggers the **Discover** experience described on this page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, all data stored in a `metrics-*` index is recognized as metrics data and triggers the **Discover** experience described on this page.
```
Another option, I think either way works though

### Required Kibana privileges

% need to check if there are required privileges for metrics.

Viewing metrics data in **Discover** requires at least `read` privileges for:
- **Discover**
- **Index**
- **Infrastructure**

For more on assigning Kibana privileges, refer to the [Kibana privileges documentation](../../../deploy-manage/users-roles/cluster-or-deployment-auth/kibana-privileges.md).

## Load metrics data

:::{note}

> To visualize your data as metric charts, the metric's data stream needs its **Index mode** set to **Time series**. Open **Index Management** using the [global search field](/explore-analyze/find-and-organize/find-apps-and-objects.md), then select the **Data Streams** tab to find your data stream's index mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To visualize your data using metric charts, its data stream needs its **Index mode** set to **Time series**. Open **Index Management** using the [global search field](/explore-analyze/find-and-organize/find-apps-and-objects.md), then select the **Data Streams** tab to find your data stream's index mode.
```
If this is accurate, I think it is a bit more clear than saying metric there

:::

The dedicated metrics view is only available in ES|QL mode. From the **Discover** main page, select **Try ES|QL**.

% not sure if the above is true, but wasn't able to access in classic view.

> Use the `FROM` command to select the data source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `TS` command to select the data source.
```

Reviewer: @mdbirnstiehl for context:
- FROM metrics-* or TS metrics-* are equivalent for now, we want to encourage users to do TS metrics-* or TS metrics-specific index
- While the above is true, we fail with the autocomplete, when the user types metrics, the autocomplete shows "All metrics" and when you click on it will show "FROM metrics-*" due to a technical limitation we had

> Use the `FROM` command to identify the sources to get the data from.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `FROM` command to select data sources.
```
